In this tutorial, we'll do a little refactoring.
Some of the functionality that BaseCharacter contains is purely human-controlled
and has nothing to do with AICharacter. Therefore, we will create a separate class,
which we will call PlayerCharacter and transfer part of the BaseCharacter functionality to it.
So let's get started. The camera and spring arm components are absolutely unnecessary in AICharacter.
Let's start by transferring the forward declaration of these classes. We insert them into the player character class.
We also need a constructor in the player character.
We replace the class.
We transfer directly the property of the components.
We create a protected section.
Insert property.
Further.
A health component is needed. Let's remove the text component. In the next section, we will change lives.
Next comes the property, which is needed in both AICharacter and PlayerCharacter. Therefore, we leave them.
We will redefine the OnDeath function in PlayerCharacter.
It has functionality that is specific to PlayerCharacter and is not needed in AICharacter.
SetupPlayerInputComponent is completely portable.
This function is meaningless for AICharacter. We create an additional section public.
Let's make the IsRunning function virtual. In the base class, it will return false.
AICharacter cannot run, but this functionality can be added if desired. We override the function in PlayerCharacter.
Add override.
The GetMovementDirection and SetPlayerColor functions are needed in both classes.
And all variables and functions related to running and movement can be transferred to PlayerCharacter.
We do not touch the OnHealthChanged and OnGrandLanded functions. They refer to the basic functionality.
Create a private section in PlayerCharacter. And paste the copied block.
It is also possible to remove the forward declaration for the text component. We won't need it anymore.
This is where we are done with the header files. Move to the BaseCharacter .cpp file.
Let's copy the constructor completely. We replace the class.
Setting up the MovementComponent is done in the base class.
In PlayerCharacter, simply call the base class constructor via Super.
We also remove health, weapon, text components.
In the base class, we do the opposite: delete the camera and spring arm. The text component is also no longer needed.
We transfer the header files of the camera, spring arm and also the input component can be immediately captured.
Next, on BeginPlay, remove the check for the text component. Everything else remains unchanged.
We clear the OnHealthChaged.
SetupPlayerInput is completely portable to PlayerCharacter. We replace the class everywhere.
Also in PlayerCharacter you need to include the header file of the weapon component.
Next, we transfer the functions related to the movement to the PlayerCharacter.
We replace the class everywhere.
In the base class, the IsRunning function will return false.
Next, copy the OnDeath function.
We replace the class. Specific to PlayerCharacter is setting the controller to a spectating state.
It doesn't make sense to an NPC. We add a parent call to the OnDeath function
so as not to lose all the logic of the base class. In the base class, remove the logic for setting the spectating state.
This completes the refactoring. We have simplified the base class.
Thus, unnecessary information that is specific to the character controlled by the user will not get into the AICharacter.
We compile the project.
So we have a compilation error. Let's see what's the matter.
The log says that if we redefine the function with macros UFUNCTION,
then it is not necessary to specify it in the child class UFUNCTION. All meta information will be the same
for this function. Therefore, we remove the UFUNCTION macro from the player character. Let's compile one more time.
Create an inheritor of PlayerCharacter, a child of the blueprint class.
We call it FROM_PlayerCharacter, place it in the player directory.
I will now speed up the video, we need to transfer all the settings from BaseCharacter to PlayerCharacter again.
The blueprint is ready. We specify it in the DefaultPawnClass.
BP_BaseCharacter can be removed. We don't need it anymore.
We launch. Everything works. The refactoring was successful.